# HR_helper
HR_helper is going to be a tool that helps to manage staff in your department, or even whole company.
Say "good bye!" to dozens of inconvenient spreadsheets. Everything in one place, easy to find and update!

## Functionalities

### Employees informations
You can store informations about your employees. Informations like:
- Basic ones:
  - department
  - function
  - date of hiring
  - length of contract
  - end of cooperation date
- events, for example (different events can be created by user):
  - vacation
  - sick leavs
  - others. If you need something, you create it!

### Documents
User can store info about all documents delivered by your staff. You can check what is missing and what was sent to HR department.
I divided documents into two kinds:
- main (or starting): decuments like contract. Necessary for hiring new employee
- others: applications etc...

User can create new types of documents. Every company has it's own protocols, so my goal is make this tool as much flexible as possible.

### Bills
I'll implement functionality that allows to collect info about all bills and costs generated by particular departments.
No more asking accountant about such info, and you can always controll your department's bills.

## Requirements:
- Linux (preferred) or Windows
- Python 3.6
- Google Chrome and [Chromedriver](http://chromedriver.chromium.org/getting-started?fbclid=IwAR3CPyq8Yr3-omfEVIHQ4X9TCJKe3bzYFGd8zbODELDSHngr04mhiuxW9hc) (for testing)
- pip


## Starting app:
1. Setup virtualenv
2. install Python libraries
`$ pip install -r requirements.txt`
3. Set up database
`$ python manage.py db upgrade`
4. Prepopulate database with sample records (optional)
`$ python manage.py sample_populate`
    - Login data if db was prepopulated:
      - login: "admin";
      - password: "a"
5. Run app
`$ python manage.py runserver`

## Project progress
Most of functionalities still need to be implemented.
What is ready now:
- adding new employee
- selecting documents needed for hiring and managing them
- adding new types of starting documents
- quering workers by name, department, function and work status (still working or not)

## Tests
Unit tests are separated from Selenium tests.
- To run unit tests: `$ pytest hr_helper/tests`
- To run Selenium tests (not implemented yet): `$ pytest hr_helper/tests_selenium`

**Caution!** Do not run `$ pytest` or `$ pytest hr_helper`.

Doing so will make pytest use default database and we only want it with Selenium tests.
